--- PAGE 24 ---
To: Whom it may Concern
From: Fort Smith Police Department
Date: January 19, 2015
Ref: MRAP
The following documentation is intended to document the intended use and training of the Mine Resistatant
Ambush Protection Vehicle, which was allocated to the Fort Smith Police Department, by the United States Government.
The Fort Smith Police Department recognizes this vehicle is the Property of the United Stated government and
assigned to this agency, if and when this agency no longer has a need for this vehicle it shall be transferred to another
LEA, or returned to the United Stated government.
Respectfully,
Cpl. Monty McMillen
Fort Smith Police Department
Swat Coordinator/Training Officer
LESO Liaison

--- PAGE 25 ---
COURSE: LESSON TITLE:
CLEET Continuing Education Course Mine Resistant Ambush Protection Vehicle Operations
DURATION: TRAINING LEVEL: PREPARED BY: Cpl Monty McMillen
5.0 Hours Swat Team Operators CLEET Instructor
Number of Trainees: 16 Date: June 30th, 2014
METHOD OF PRESENTATION: INSTRUCTOR: CLEET Instructor
Lecture, Questions & Answers, Visual Presentation APPROVED BY: CLEET Standards Division
LEARNING GOAL: The student will become familiar with the basic Operations of the Mine Resistant Ambush Protection
Vehicle (MRAP).
PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES:
1. The student will be able to identify the Power Plant and transmission, as presented by the Instructor.
2. The student shall be able to identify the control panel and identify all gauges and lights, as well as, switches,
as presented by the Instructor.
3. The student shall be able to identify the routine maintenance required, as presented by the Instructor.
4. The student shall be familiar with the passenger capacity, as well as, load weights, as presented by the
Instructor.
5. The student shall be familiar with the Vehicle Operations, as presented by the Instructor.
6. The student shall be familiar with vehicle recovery operations, as presented by the Instructor.
7. The student shall demonstrate proper driving techniques for both highway and off road operations.
8. The student shall demonstrate proper evacuation techniques in case of an accident or other emergency
situation. ( completed EGRIS training at FCMTC MRAP roll over simulator)
TRAINING AIDS REQUIRED:
1. A/V projector
2. MRAP
Training was completed at the FCMTC. Students also received instruction from a retired US Army Master Driver, as well
as some additional vehicle maintenance training with current FCMTC Maintenance personnel.
Fort Smith Police Department Mine Resistant Ambush Protection Vehicle
Primary Purpose: Special Response and Tactics / Operations
Search and Rescue

--- PAGE 26 ---
Evacuations / Emergency Situations
Required Training:
Basic MRAP Operations
Driver Requirements:
Completion of Basic MRAP Operations and / or equivalent training at the discretion of the Chief
of Police.
Commercial Drivers License Not required.

--- PAGE 27 ---
Hot Springs Police Department S.W.A.T. Training
Cover Sheet
Subject: MRAP Operations
Duration of Class: 8 hours
Level of Instruction: Basic
Target Group: Hot Springs Police Department S.W.A.T. Team
Course Prepared by: Ofc. Eric Wacaster
Revisions: N/A
Date of Instruction: 5/5/15
Location: Hot Springs Airport.
1

--- PAGE 28 ---
Hot Springs Police Department S.W.A.T. Training
Course Summary Sheet
Course Title: MRAP Operations
Purpose of the Course: To familiarize Hot Springs Police Department SWAT Operators with
basic MRAP functions, preventative maintenance, and driving operations of the MRAP.
Objectives: At the end of the block of instruction the students will be able to successfully:
1. Identify the Power Plant and transmission, as presented by the Instructor.
2. Identify the control panel and identify all gauges and lights, as well as, switches, as
presented by the Instructor.
3. Identify the routine maintenance required, as presented by the Instructor.
4. Demonstrate familiarity with the passenger capacity, as well as load weights, as
presented by the Instructor.
5. Demonstrate familiarity with the Vehicle Operations, as presented by the Instructor.
6. Demonstrate familiarity with vehicle recovery operations, as presented by the
Instructor.
Certification: Eric Wacaster is a police officer and SWAT Team member with the Hot Springs
Police Department. He is a certified police and firearms instructor through the Commission on
Law Enforcement Standards. He is also a certified Force on Force instructor through General
Dynamics. Ofc. Zac Rostan will assist with instruction. Ofc. Rostan is a police officer and
SWAT team member with Hot Springs Police Department as well as a staff sergeant in the
United States Army Reserve. Ofc. Rostan is a veteran of multiple overseas deployments where
he has operated MRAPs in theater. He has also trained multiple other soldiers in the use and
operation of MRAPs.
2

--- PAGE 29 ---
Hot Springs Police Department S.W.A.T. Training
Course Outline
I. Introduction
A. General vehicle familiarization and identification
1. Power Plant
2. Transmission
3. Control Panel
4. Lights, switches, and gauges
II. Body
A. Routine and Preventative Maintenance
B. Passenger Capacity and Load Limits
C. Vehicle Operations
1. Start up and Shut Down Procedure
2. Driving and Vehicle Clearances
3. Parking
4. Vehicle Recovery
III. Conclusion
A. Operators will correctly demonstrate all objectives back to the instructor
3

--- PAGE 30 ---
References
None
Training Aids
MRAP
Coordination Personnel
Ofc. Zac Rostan (See “Certification” for Qualifications)
4

--- PAGE 32 ---
To: Whom it may Concern
From: Lt. Brett Hibbs
Date: January 14, 2015
Ref: MRAP
The following documentation is intended to document to intended use and training of the Mine Resistatant
Ambush Protection Vehicle, which was allocated to the Jacksonville AR Police Department, by the United States
Government.
The Jacksonville Police Department recognizes this vehicle is the Property of the United Stated government and
assigned to this agency, if and when this agency no longer has a need for this vehicle it shall be transferred to another
LEA, or returned to the United Stated government.
Respectfully,
Lt. Brett Hibbs
Jacksonville Police Department AR
Special Response Team Commander

--- PAGE 33 ---
COURSE: LESSON TITLE:
MRAP Driver Training Mine Resistant Ambush Protection Vehicle Operations
DURATION: TRAINING LEVEL: PREPARED BY: Brett Hibbs
8.0 Hours Special Response Team Officers CLEET Instructor
Number of Trainees: 8 Date: 7-19-2014
METHOD OF PRESENTATION: INSTRUCTOR: Brett Hibbs
Lecture, Visual Aid, Practical
LEARNING GOAL: The student will become familiar with the basic Operations of the Mine Resistant Ambush Protection
Vehicle (MRAP).
PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES:
1. The student will be able to identify the Power Plant and transmission, as presented by the Instructor.
2. The student shall be able to identify the control panel and identify all gauges and lights, as well as, switches,
as presented by the Instructor.
3. The student shall be able to identify the routine maintenance required, as presented by the Instructor.
4. The student shall be familiar with the passenger capacity, as well as, load weights, as presented by the
Instructor.
5. The student shall be familiar with the Vehicle Operations, as presented by the Instructor.
6. The student will perform driving maneuvers in roadway in a 5 mile course.
TRAINEE REFERENCE MATERIALS: INSTRUCTOR REFERENCE:
MATERIALS: Instructor certified trough Smith IT
Smith IT driver training manual and lesson plan
TRAINING AIDS REQUIRED:
1. A/V projector
2. Lesson Plan
3. MRAP
4. Driving course located on Little Rock Air Force Base

--- PAGE 34 ---
Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) Vehicle
Standard Operating Procedure (SOP)
Effective Date: January 13, 2015
Revisions: None
PURPOSE:
The Jefferson County Sheriff’s Office obtained a Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP)
Vehicle through the LESO 1033 Program. The Jefferson County Sheriff recognizes and
appreciates the uniqueness of this vehicle. The purpose of this vehicle is that it will be utilized
by the Jefferson County Sheriff’s Office for the protection of law enforcement officers and
citizens during high risk operations for the safety of persons from threats such as but not
limited to potential gunfire. Additional uses of this vehicle will be to assist citizens during
natural disaster events to navigate through extreme terrain or to drive through damaged areas
to assist citizens affected by such disasters.
MAINTENANCE AND STORAGE:
1. The vehicle shall be secured from public access during storage. This can be
accomplished minimally by locking doors, turning off all power systems, and/or by
storage in a secure building or structure from public.
2. The vehicle will be kept maintained in a safe and sustainable operating condition and
will be in a response capable condition at all times.
3. Any conditions identified during inspection and maintenance that may render the
vehicle unsafe for use shall require that the vehicle be taken out of service, tagged, and
notification made to the SRT Commander and/or Operations Commander immediately.
The vehicle shall not be used until such time that it has been repaired and/or rendered
safe to operate.
TRAINING AND OPERATION:
1. No officer will be allowed to operate the vehicle without training.

--- PAGE 35 ---
2. The training may be completed by in-service staff instructors, who have completed a
train-the-trainer course, or by a contracted company or trained military member who
has extensive experience or qualifications with this type of vehicle.
3. Training shall include classroom instruction and a hands on / drivers training
components.
4. The training shall at a minimum consist of the following:
• Overview of the vehicle to include its capabilities and limitations.
• Characteristics of the vehicle so the operators will have a knowledge of its size and
weight.
• Basic Preventative Maintenance Checks & Services (PMCS).
• Safe operating speeds.
• Steering, movement and maneuvering.
• Visibility concerns.
• Operation of controls and indicators.
• Ground guide techniques for safe operation.
• Operation on slopes.
• Restricted terrain.
• Rollover hazards and egress procedures.
• Mount and dismount.
• Falls, smashed, and pinched extremities.
• Use of seatbelts.
• Risks of contact with low hanging objects such as power lines.

--- PAGE 66 ---
Lonoke County Sheriff’s Office
John Staley - Sheriff
To:
From: County Sheriff’s Office
DateW: hom it may Concern
Ref: Lonoke
1 December 2015
MRAP
CountyT hSeh eforilflfo’sw oinffgic deo, bcuym theen Utantiiotend i sS tiantteesn Gdeodv etron dmoecnutm. ent to intended use and training
of the Mine ResistaCnotu Anmtyb Suhsehr Pifrf’ost Oecftfiicon Vehicle, which was allocated to the Lonoke
The Lonoke e recognizes this vehicle is the property of the
United Stated government and assigned to this agency, if and when this agency no longer
has a need for this vehicle it shall be transferred to another LEA, or returned to the United
Stated government.
RespectfCuolulyn, t y Sheriff’s Office
Captain David Bufford
Lonoke
LESO Liaison
Lane • Lonoke, AR 72086 • Office 501 3001 • Fax 501 • www.lonokeso.com
440 Dee Dee -676- -676-3017

--- PAGE 67 ---
Lonoke County Sheriff’s Office
John Staley - Sheriff
COURSE: LESSON TITLE:
CLEST Continuing Education Course Mine Resistant Ambush
DURATION: TRAINING LEVEL:
Protection Vehicle Operations
PREPARED BY:
James Hall Certified Law Enforcement Instructor
4.0 Hours Full time Deputies
Number of Trainees: 5-10 Date: 2015
METHOD OF PRESENTATION: INSTRUCTOR:
LEARNING GOAL: James Hall
Lecture, Questions & Answers, Visual Presentation
PERFORMANCE O BTJhEeC sTtuIVdEenSt: will become familiar with the basic Operations of the Mine
Resistan t Ambush Protection Vehicle (MRAP).
1. Given an exam, the student will be able to identify the Power Plant and
transmission, as presented by the Instructor.
2. Given an exam, the student shall be able to identify the control panel and identify
all gauges and lights, as well as, switches, as presented by the Instructor.
3. Given an exam, the student shall be able to identify the routine maintenance
required, as presented by the Instructor.
4. Given an exam, the student shall be familiar with the passenger capacity, as well
as, load weights, as presented by the Instructor.
5. Given an exam, the student shall be familiar with the Vehicle Operations, as
presented by the Instructor.
6. Given an exam, the student shall be familiar with vehicle recovery operations, as
presented by the Instructor.
Lane • Lonoke, AR 72086 • Office 501 3001 • Fax 501 • www.lonokeso.com
440 Dee Dee -676- -676-3017

--- PAGE 68 ---
Lonoke County Sheriff’s Office
John Staley - Sheriff
TRAINEE REFERENCE MATERIALS:
INSTRUCTOR REFERENCE: MATERIALS:
TRAINING AIDS REQUIRED:
Provided by the Agency
1. A/V projector
2. Dry Erase
3. MRAP
Lonoke County Sheriff’s Office Mine Resistant Ambush
Protection Vehicle
Primary Purpose
: Special Response and Tactics / Operations
Required TraininSgearch and Rescue
Evacuations / Emergency Situations
Driver Requiremen: ts
Basic MRAP Operations
:
Completion of Basic MRAP Operations and / or equivalent training at
the discretion of the Sheriff.
Commercial Drivers License Not required.
Lane • Lonoke, AR 72086 • Office 501 3001 • Fax 501 • www.lonokeso.com
440 Dee Dee -676- -676-3017

